---
title: Week 0 | Introduction and Previous Contributions
date: 2020-05-19 14:00:00 +05:30
tags: [Blog, Contributions]
permalink: /:title
description: My Introduction to JdeRobot and my contributions till date.
---

The best thing that happened to me in the past few months was to come across JdeRobot. I immediately fell in love with the concept of helping people learn Robotics, Computer Vision, and other cool stuff with the help of very intuitive exercises built on ROS. I am a person with an interest for Computer Vision and while working on improving one of the exercises in JdeRobot's Academy, I came to realize that continuing to contribute to JdeRobot might be the best way that I can not only master skills in Computer Vision, Software Development but also help other students who are starting out working with vision. This was something like a match made in heaven and so I decided to continue contributing to JdeRobot. I look forward to an amazing experience ahead.

## Color Filter Exercise
One of the first tasks for any Vision starter is to understand Images. How Images are formed, how computers interpret images, and how we can process images. To store an image on a computer, the image is broken down into tiny elements called pixels (short for picture element). When we take a digital image, it is stored as a combination of pixels. Each pixel contains a different number of channels. If it a grayscale image, it has only one pixel, whereas if it is a colored image, it contains three channels red, green, and blue. The proportion in which these three channels are valued gives the color of the pixel. In order to perform a color-based filtering operation, we need to understand the different types of [color spaces](http://jderobot.github.io/RoboticsAcademy/exercises/ComputerVision/color_filter#color-space). Once we have the knowledge of color spaces, we can jump to color filter exercise and try some hands-on color filtering and tracking. Color filter exercise gives you a GUI Window where you can simultaneously observe the initial image, thresholded image, and the final detection. You can experiment and track a variety of different colored objects and play with thresholding. This exercise is indeed a great starting point for people starting out on image processing. I am really glad to be able to contribute to improving this exercise.

[Visit Exercise](https://github.com/JdeRobot/RoboticsAcademy/tree/master/exercises/color_filter)

[Read Documentation](http://jderobot.github.io/RoboticsAcademy/exercises/ComputerVision/color_filter)

## Little About Me
I am an undergraduate student at the Indian Institute of Technology, Indore. I major in Electrical Engineering and currently, I am in my pre-final year. I work for [Dozee](https://dozee.io/) as a Data Scientist with a major focus on Computer Vision. [PixelPie](https://pixelpie.org) is another place where I blog.  

